_faqs: Add frequently asked quetions from the Chemnitzer Linux Tage (#125)
RIOT-OS/riot-os.org: _faqs/faq-12.md

This makes RIOT suitable for students in teaching, tinkerers in the DIY community, and professionals alike.

RIOT is developed by a diverse, open, and [self-governed][riot-community-process] community.
Members in the community mostly belong to one (or more) of the following groups: academia, industry, and the makers/hobbyists.

RIOT is distributed under a copy-left license and strongly prefers free and open source components over proprietary code and binary blobs.
Still, RIOT does contain proprietary drivers (some even using binary blobs) where no free alternative is available, e.g. for the ESP WiFi chipset.
<!-- FIXME: Make FAQ entries linkable and link to "Why LGPL?" -->

## Vendor Specific SDKs

Most MCU vendors provide an SDK that is tied and only supports MCU of that specific vendor.
The advantage of the vendor SDKs is that they are developed in lock-step with the hardware and expose all features of the hardware early on.
The RIOT community can only start working on drivers once the MCUs are generally available and more exotic features that are only relevant on niche use cases may never be supported in favor of a cleaner and more portable API in RIOT.

> From a government point of view RIOT is developed by a self-governed community, while the vendor SDKs are under tight control of the vendor.

Author: Thx, fixed in 84e4f57d70abbe866abf114d68e61815e2221aa0

The RIOT community has so for maintained many popular boards well after the vendors declared them obsolete, while vendor SDKs often phase out support for older MCUs sooner.

Vendor specific SDKs typically do not have any copyleft clauses.

## Arduino

Both RIOT and Arduino have a strong focus on a gentle learning curve and a low entry barrier.
Arduino however goes a step further and sacrifices advanced features such as native multi-threading, a full-fledged and mature network stack, or VFS subsystem for simplicity.
This combined with a trimmed down IDE results in a lower entry barrier for Arduino compared to RIOT.

RIOT still allows new users to quickly get productive, but without limiting developers to specific design patterns, specific software architectures, and a strong tie to a specific IDE.
As a nice treat for users that started with Arduino but ran in limitations, our [Arduino compatibility layer][riot-arduino] allows re-using sketches and libraries from the Arduino world.

Arduino has a vast ecosystem of libraries developed independently by 3rd parties.

> RIOT set of modules and packages is not that vast, but RIOT's modules are seamlessly integrated, have a consistent APIs and integrate well with each others.

Reviewer: i would argue against the genitive in the phrase about the set. RIOT does not own sets. RIOT is an operating system. if you refer to the RIOT community, it would be weird, too.

> RIOT set of modules and packages is not that vast, but RIOT's modules are seamlessly integrated, have a consistent APIs and integrate well with each others.

Reviewer 2: How about "The number of modules and packages shipped with RIOT is smaller, but they are seamlessly integrated, provide a consistent API and combine well with each other."?

This results in easier reuse of code and higher productivity without having to worry about interoperability issues of components and "impedance matching" between misaligned APIs.

The Arduino software is released under a copyleft license and hardware support can be extended greatly beyond the official Arduino boards by using 3rd party Arduino cores.

> The development of the ecosystem is sponsored and controlled by a single company that owns the registered trademark of Arduino, while RIOT governed by an independent community.

Reviewer 3: last part of the sentence, maybe change it into:
- 'while with RIOT an independent community is responsible for governance.' 
or
- 'while RIOT applies self-governance by its independent community.'

Goal of the change is again avoiding 'government' and using 'governance' instead. Not sure about the exact wording here.

Author: Thx, addressed by 9ea4bc1bf1609ef5dfbea27b6fc798b653180b17

## Zephyr

Zephyr has a larger and more complex code base and a very sophistication configuration system and unique tooling and is backed by a larger community than RIOT.
This results in a larger feature set at the expense of a steeper learning curve.

RIOT leaner code base makes the code easier to follow and results in a lower memory footprint.
In addition RIOT has been ported to 8-bit and 16-bit platforms, allowing its use on MCUs that are too resource constraint to run Zephyr.

Zephyr's larger code base and development community does give Zephyr an edge when it comes to the number of features supported.

> We do believe that RIOT has an edge over zephyr when a gentle learning curve, memory consumption, or quick prototyping cycles are priorities.

Reviewer 3: line 68: Zephyr instead of zephyr

Author: Thx, fixed by 8a73b58267ebe373ae334e3f7c6ab42412a1933d

Zephyr uses a permissive license and is developed by the Linux Foundation.

> Its development is governed by a [technical steering committee][zephyr-tsc] elected from (paying) members, whereas RIOT is steered by [self-governed community][riot-community-process]

Reviewer 3: nicely said! 

grammar: add 'a' before '[self-governed'

Author: Thx, fixed by 8a73b58267ebe373ae334e3f7c6ab42412a1933d

It provides a large collection of in-tree modules and out-of-tree packages that seamlessly integrate in your application.
This allows developers to pick the features they need from a large collection (as long as they can fit on the MCU).

RIOT aims to be easy to learn by using sane defaults, by providing good documentation, and via its helpful community that happily answers questions [in the forum][riot-forum] or in the [matrix chat][riot-matrix].
However, RIOT does not sacrifice advanced features, productivity or the ability to tinker with settings for more simplicity.
This makes RIOT suitable for students in teaching, tinkerers in the DIY community, and professionals alike.

RIOT is developed by a diverse, open, and [self-governed][riot-community-process] community.
Members in the community mostly belong to one (or more) of the following groups: academia, industry, and makers/hobbyists.

RIOT is distributed under a copyleft license and strongly prefers free and open source components over proprietary code and binary blobs.
Still, RIOT does contain proprietary drivers (some even using binary blobs) where no free alternative is available, e.g. for the ESP WiFi chipset.

> <!-- FIXME: Make FAQ entries linkable and link to "Why LGPL?" -->

Author: I tested https://www.riot-os.org/#faq2 and it does not work for me. There also is no anchor in the HTML.

I think it would make sense to add the link, but making the FAQ entries linkable is IMO out of scope. (It would also make sense to have more stable IDs, as reordering the entries would break a number based system.)

> <!-- FIXME: Make FAQ entries linkable and link to "Why LGPL?" -->

Reviewer 4: > I tested https://www.riot-os.org/#faq2 and it does not work for me. There also is no anchor in the HTML.

Huh? There is for me (see screenshot below) and it is also present in the Jekyll template https://github.com/RIOT-OS/riot-os.org/blob/be5b3902be5a318d29a0ef17ca048201ffdce238/index.html#L471

> <!-- FIXME: Make FAQ entries linkable and link to "Why LGPL?" -->

Reviewer 4: Ah, it only works, if the FAQ is expanded... Ok, then let's postpone this.

> <!-- FIXME: Make FAQ entries linkable and link to "Why LGPL?" -->

Author: Same. If I use `<a id="faq-license">...</a>` it also works when the FAQ entry is not expanded.

##### Vendor Specific SDKs

Most MCU vendors provide an SDK that is tied to and only supports MCUs of that specific vendor.
The advantage of the vendor SDKs is that they are developed in lock-step with the hardware and expose all features of the hardware early on.
The RIOT community can only start working on drivers once the MCUs are generally available and more exotic features that are only relevant to niche use cases may never be supported in favor of a cleaner and more portable API in RIOT.

From a governance point of view, RIOT is developed by a self-governed community, while the vendor SDKs are under tight control of the vendor.

> The RIOT community has so for maintained many popular boards well after the vendors declared them obsolete, while vendor SDKs often phase out support for older MCUs sooner.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The RIOT community has so far maintained many popular boards well after the vendors declared them obsolete, while vendor SDKs often phase out support for older MCUs sooner.
```

or

```suggestion
Because of that, the RIOT community has maintained many popular boards well after the vendors declared them obsolete, while vendor SDKs often phase out support for older MCUs sooner.
```

Or what was meant here? Having trouble parsing this sentence.

Author: Nice catch, thx :)

Contiki-NG's development is steered by a small group of (mostly) computer science researchers and it is distributed under a permissive license.

<!-- Links, sorted alphabetically: -->
[arduino-homepage]: https://www.arduino.cc
[freertos-aws-homepage]: https://www.freertos.org/iot-libraries.html
[freertos-homepage]: https://www.freertos.org
[riot-arduino-nano]: https://doc.riot-os.org/group__boards__arduino-nano.html
[riot-arduino]: https://doc.riot-os.org/group__sys__arduino.html
[riot-community-process]: https://doc.riot-os.org/community-processes.html
[riot-espc3-devkit]: https://doc.riot-os.org/group__boards__esp32c3__devkit.html
[riot-forum]: https://forum.riot-os.org
[riot-matrix]: https://matrix.to/#/#riot-os:matrix.org
[riot-same54-xpro]: https://doc.riot-os.org/group__boards__same54-xpro.html
[riot-zep-dispatcher]: https://github.com/RIOT-OS/RIOT/tree/master/dist/tools/zep_dispatch
[zephyr-homepage]: https://www.zephyrproject.org
[zephyr-tsc]: https://www.zephyrproject.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/38/2020/09/CLEAN-LF-Zephyr-Charter-20200624-effective-20200901.pdf

> [contiki-ng-homepage]: https://www.contiki-ng.org/

Author: Thx, fixed :)

---

> question: How does RIOT compare to XYZ?

Reviewer: "XYZ" is not nice.
maybe something like:
... to other operating systems for embedded or IoT devices.

---

> Compared to **vendor specific solutions**, RIOT runs on many different CPU architectures by many different vendors, from a tiny 8-bit MCU with 2 KiB RAM and 32 KiB flash all the way up to high performance ARM Cortex M and RISC-V MCUs.

Author: I agree that backing up this claim by examples makes sense, but IMO it also impacts the flow of reading. I just added links to a common and well documented board for each class as as example, without naming them explicitly.

Is that a good compromise between backing up the claim while keeping the sentence structure easy?

> Compared to **vendor specific solutions**, RIOT runs on many different CPU architectures by many different vendors, from a tiny 8-bit MCU with 2 KiB RAM and 32 KiB flash all the way up to high performance ARM Cortex M and RISC-V MCUs.

Reviewer 2: Yes, LGTM!

Because RIOT abstracts the hardware differences by providing the same API for the same functionality across this large range of MCUs, projects building upon RIOT are highly portable and therefore resilient to changes in the supply chain.

Compared to **Arduino**, RIOT provides advanced features such as native multi-threading and a mature network stack, while still providing a gentle learning curve.
This allows new users to quickly get productive with RIOT without limiting developers to specific design patterns and software architectures.
As a nice treat for users migrating from Arduino, our [Arduino compatibility layer](https://doc.riot-os.org/group__sys__arduino.html) allows re-using sketches and libraries from the Arduino world.

> Compared to **zephyr**, RIOT is less complex and has a smaller code base.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Compared to **Zephyr**, RIOT is less complex and has a smaller code base.
```

see https://zephyrproject.org/

We may also want to add links to those alternatives?

This results in a more gentle learning curve and a shorter on-boarding time needed to get productive with RIOT.

> In addition RIOT has a smaller memory footprint and has been ported to 8-bit and 16-bit platforms, allowing RIOT to be used on MCUs that are too resource constraint to run zephyr.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition RIOT has a smaller memory footprint and has been ported to 8-bit and 16-bit platforms, allowing RIOT to be used on MCUs that are too resource constraint to run Zephyr.
```

> Zephyr's larger code base and development community does give zephyr an edge when it comes to the number of features supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Zephyr's larger code base and development community does give Zephyr an edge when it comes to the number of features supported.
```

> We do believe that RIOT has an edge over zephyr when a gentle learning curve, memory consumption, or quick prototyping cycles are priorities.

Reviewer 5: One might add that RIOT is more focused on the spirit of Free Software, eg. using a Free implementation of nRF's radio as opposed to using the nonfree Softdevice. While I'd love to see that emphasized more (some say RIOT is the Linux of embedded programming, I think it's more the Debian of it), I'm unsure as to whether we really hold ourselves to those standards (apart from applying LGPL), given that we don't have a clear separation of which our boards do actually use nonfree components.

Reviewer 3: > One might add that RIOT is more focused on the spirit of Free Software, eg. using a Free implementation of nRF's radio as opposed to using the nonfree Softdevice. While I'd love to see that emphasized more (some say RIOT is the Linux of embedded programming, I think it's more the Debian of it), I'm unsure as to whether we really hold ourselves to those standards (apart from applying LGPL), given that we don't have a clear separation of which our boards do actually use nonfree components.

This also shows in the difference in governance model between Zephyr and RIOT. Zephyr is supported by 'members', which are among others big non-FOSS companies such as Meta and Google. Those member organizations deliver governing board members and members of the Technical Steering Committee. Those are the decision making institutes at the project (see this [Zephyr Project Charter](https://www.zephyrproject.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/38/2020/09/CLEAN-LF-Zephyr-Charter-20200624-effective-20200901.pdf)). Zephyr states to have vendor-neutral governance (see page 5 of this [2023 overview](https://zephyrproject.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/38/2024/01/Zephyr-Overview-20240110.pdf)).

Nevertheless, RIOT is developed and steered by the grassroots community, having no explicit company behind the project. And thus having no vendors at all, if I understand correctly. This is also a reason for some people to choose using RIOT instead of Zephyr. 

Might be good to explain this difference in governance also shortly.

Author: @chrysn, @jkarinkl: I think I addressed this one and will hit resolve on this conversion. Please "unresolve" if you disagree.

> We do believe that RIOT has an edge over zephyr when a gentle learning curve, memory consumption, or quick prototyping cycles are priorities.

Reviewer 2: +1 for pointing out the difference in governance

> given that we don't have a clear separation of which our boards do actually use nonfree components.

That's a very good point and definitely something worth to follow up on.

> Compared to **FreeRTOS** which only provides the basic core OS features such a scheduler, RIOT packs many optional features seamlessly integrated as modules and packages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Compared to **FreeRTOS** which only provides the basic core OS features such as a scheduler, RIOT packs many optional features seamlessly integrated as modules and packages.
```

The ability to quickly enable and build upon these features reduces the development time needed for a certain application.
FreeRTOS has an edge when it comes to the number of architectures supported, though.

> Compared **a:FreeRTOS**, RIOT is open minded about the network architecture and gives you all the choices.

Reviewer 2: What is "a:FreeRTOS"? Are you refering to the AWS-branded (?) version over [here](https://aws.amazon.com/de/freertos/)? I couldn't find that name mentioned anywhere. (Another reason to add links to the mentioned alternatives?)

> That is, while RIOT can communicate with cloud services (without any preference on the service provide), you can just as well opt for direct machine to machine communication, on-premise architectures, or offline applications without network connectivity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That is, while RIOT can communicate with cloud services (without any preference on the service provider), you can just as well opt for direct machine-to-machine communication, on-premise architectures, or offline applications without network connectivity.
```

question: How does RIOT compare to other operating systems for embedded or IoT devices?
---

## Disclaimer

Developing an OS for embedded systems involves many trade-offs.
Hence, there is not a single right choice for every application.
In this comparison we try to give a balanced comparison of the high-level architectural trade-offs other operating systems took and how they compare to RIOT.
Additionally, we compare the government of the project and the licensing.

## RIOT

> RIOT runs on many different CPU architectures by many different vendors, from [a tiny 8-bit MCU with 2 KiB RAM and 32 KiB flash][riot-arduino-nano] all the way up to high performance [ARM Cortex M][riot-same54-xpro] and [RISC-V MCUs][riot-esp32c3-devkit].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RIOT runs on many different CPU architectures by many different vendors, from [a tiny 8-bit MCU with 2 KiB RAM and 32 KiB flash][riot-arduino-nano] all the way up to high-performance [ARM Cortex M][riot-same54-xpro] and [RISC-V][riot-esp32c3-devkit] MCUs.
```

Because RIOT abstracts the hardware differences by providing the same API for the same functionality across this large range of MCUs, projects building upon RIOT are highly portable and therefore resilient to changes in the supply chain.

> RIOT is designed to be a general purpose OS with batteries included.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RIOT is designed to be a general-purpose OS with batteries included.
```

It provides a large collection of in-tree modules and out-of-tree packages that seamlessly integrate in your application.

> This allows developers to pick from a large collection the features they need (and that can fit the MCU).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This allows developers to pick the features they need from a large collection (as long as they can fit on the MCU).
```

RIOT aims to be easy to learn by using sane defaults, by providing good documentation, and via its helpful community that happily answers questions [in the forum][riot-forum] or in the [matrix chat][riot-matrix].
However, RIOT does not sacrifice advanced features, productivity or the ability to tinker with settings for more simplicity.
This makes RIOT suitable for students in teaching, tinkerers in the DIY community, and professionals alike.

RIOT is developed by a diverse, open, and [self-governed][riot-community-process] community.

> Members in the community mostly belong to one (or more) of the following groups: academia, industry, and the makers/hobbyists.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Members in the community mostly belong to one (or more) of the following groups: academia, industry, and makers/hobbyists.
```

> RIOT is distributed under a copy-left license and strongly prefers free and open source components over proprietary code and binary blobs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RIOT is distributed under a copyleft license and strongly prefers free and open source components over proprietary code and binary blobs.
```

Still, RIOT does contain proprietary drivers (some even using binary blobs) where no free alternative is available, e.g. for the ESP WiFi chipset.
<!-- FIXME: Make FAQ entries linkable and link to "Why LGPL?" -->

## Vendor Specific SDKs

> Most MCU vendors provide an SDK that is tied and only supports MCU of that specific vendor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most MCU vendors provide an SDK that is tied to and only supports MCUs of that specific vendor.
```

The advantage of the vendor SDKs is that they are developed in lock-step with the hardware and expose all features of the hardware early on.

> The RIOT community can only start working on drivers once the MCUs are generally available and more exotic features that are only relevant on niche use cases may never be supported in favor of a cleaner and more portable API in RIOT.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The RIOT community can only start working on drivers once the MCUs are generally available and more exotic features that are only relevant to niche use cases may never be supported in favor of a cleaner and more portable API in RIOT.
```

> From a government point of view RIOT is developed by a self-governed community, while the vendor SDKs are under tight control of the vendor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From a government point of view, RIOT is developed by a self-governed community, while the vendor SDKs are under tight control of the vendor.
```

The RIOT community has so for maintained many popular boards well after the vendors declared them obsolete, while vendor SDKs often phase out support for older MCUs sooner.

Vendor specific SDKs typically do not have any copyleft clauses.

## Arduino

Both RIOT and Arduino have a strong focus on a gentle learning curve and a low entry barrier.

> Arduino however goes a step further and sacrifices advanced features such as native multi-threading, a full-fledged and mature network stack, or VFS subsystem for simplicity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Arduino however goes a step further and sacrifices advanced features such as native multi-threading, a full-fledged and mature network stack, or a VFS subsystem for simplicity.
```

> This combined with a trimmed down IDE results in a lower entry barrier for Arduino compared to RIOT.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This combined with a trimmed-down IDE results in a lower entry barrier for Arduino compared to RIOT.
```

RIOT still allows new users to quickly get productive, but without limiting developers to specific design patterns, specific software architectures, and a strong tie to a specific IDE.

> As a nice treat for users that started with Arduino but ran in limitations, our [Arduino compatibility layer][riot-arduino] allows re-using sketches and libraries from the Arduino world.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a nice treat for users that started with Arduino but ran into limitations, our [Arduino compatibility layer][riot-arduino] allows re-using sketches and libraries from the Arduino world.
```

> Arduino has a vast ecosystem of libraries developed independently by 3rd parties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Arduino has a vast ecosystem of libraries developed independently by third parties.
```

> RIOT set of modules and packages is not that vast, but RIOT's modules are seamlessly integrated, have a consistent APIs and integrate well with each others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RIOT's set of modules and packages is not that vast, but RIOT's modules are seamlessly integrated, have consistent APIs and integrate well with each other.
```

This results in easier reuse of code and higher productivity without having to worry about interoperability issues of components and "impedance matching" between misaligned APIs.

> The Arduino software is released under a copyleft license and hardware support can be extended greatly beyond the official Arduino boards by using 3rd party Arduino cores.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Arduino software is released under a copyleft license and hardware support can be extended greatly beyond the official Arduino boards by using third-party Arduino cores.
```

> The development of the ecosystem is sponsored and controlled by a single company that owns the registered trademark of Arduino, while RIOT governed by an independent community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The development of the ecosystem is sponsored and controlled by a single company that owns the registered trademark of Arduino, while RIOT is governed by an independent community.
```

## Zephyr

> Zephyr has a larger and more complex code base and a very sophistication configuration system and unique tooling and is backed by a larger community than RIOT.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Zephyr has a larger and more complex code base, a very sophisticated configuration system, and unique tooling and is backed by a larger community than RIOT.
```

This results in a larger feature set at the expense of a steeper learning curve.

> RIOT leaner code base makes the code easier to follow and results in a lower memory footprint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RIOT's leaner code base makes the code easier to understand and results in a lower memory footprint.
```

> In addition RIOT has been ported to 8-bit and 16-bit platforms, allowing its use on MCUs that are too resource constraint to run Zephyr.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, RIOT has been ported to 8-bit and 16-bit platforms, allowing its use on MCUs that are too resource constrained to run Zephyr.
```

Zephyr's larger code base and development community does give Zephyr an edge when it comes to the number of features supported.

> We do believe that RIOT has an edge over zephyr when a gentle learning curve, memory consumption, or quick prototyping cycles are priorities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We do believe that RIOT has an edge over Zephyr when a gentle learning curve, memory consumption, or quick prototyping cycles are priorities.
```

Zephyr uses a permissive license and is developed by the Linux Foundation.

> Its development is governed by a [technical steering committee][zephyr-tsc] elected from (paying) members, whereas RIOT is steered by [self-governed community][riot-community-process]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Its development is governed by a [technical steering committee][zephyr-tsc] elected from (paying) members, whereas RIOT is steered by a [self-governed community][riot-community-process].
```

## FreeRTOS / FreeRTOS for AWS IoT

> FreeRTOS focuses on the basic core OS features such as a scheduler and a small set of libraries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
FreeRTOS focuses on the basic core-OS features such as a scheduler and a small set of libraries.
```

This clear focus resulted in FreeRTOS being ported to more platforms than RIOT, despite its smaller development community.

RIOT on the other hand packs a lot more features as seamlessly integrated as modules and packages.
The ability to quickly enable and build upon these features reduces the development time needed for a certain application.

FreeRTOS for AWS IoT provides libraries that ease the use of cloud APIs offered by a certain service provider from microcontrollers.
RIOT on the other hand is open minded about the network architecture and enables applications developers to choose freely:
RIOT can communicate with centralized cloud services (without any preference on the service provider), use a centralized on-premise architecture, use decentralized machine-to-machine communication, or operate offline.

FreeROTS and FreeRTOS for AWS IoT are both developed by Amazon Web Services, Inc. under a permissive license.

## Contiki-NG

Contiki-NG has a smaller development community and a small and focused code base.

> It has a strong focus on research, whereas RIOT intents to be a general purpose OS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It has a strong focus on research, whereas RIOT intents to be a general-purpose OS.
```

A unique feature of Contiki-NG is the Cooja Network Simulator.

> RIOT provides similar simulation features with the [ZEP packet dispatcher][riot-zep-dispatcher], but clearly Coojia is a more tightly integrated and polished experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RIOT provides similar simulation features with the [ZEP packet dispatcher][riot-zep-dispatcher], but clearly Cooja is a more tightly integrated and polished experience.
```

> Another aspect where Contiki-NGs focus on research manifests is that Contiki-NG only supports a small number of boards, but has a quite sophisticated network stack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another aspect where Contiki-NG's focus on research manifests is that Contiki-NG only supports a small number of boards, while having a quite sophisticated network stack.
```

> As a result of the larger and more active community, RIOT packs more features, has a faster development pace, supports more MCUs families, and has been ported to far more boards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a result of the larger and more active community, RIOT packs more features, has a faster development pace, supports more MCU families, and has been ported to far more boards.
```

While Contiki-NG's network simulator and small code base make it a strong competitor to RIOT in the domain of research, RIOT has a clear edge over Contiki-NG when it comes to the hardware support and the features required for many real world applications.

> Contiki-NG's development is steered by a small group of (mostly) computer science researchers and distributed under a permissive license.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Contiki-NG's development is steered by a small group of (mostly) computer science researchers and it is distributed under a permissive license.
```
